We've finished everything about IP addressing and subnetting.
And if you're like me and not very good at Math, you're probably going to be glad to hear that.
Don't worry.
Everything else that we're going to cover is not Math-based, and you're not going to be having to count
anything up in your head.
Everything else that you're going to get tested on is about the different features that are available,
what they do,
how to configure them, and how to troubleshoot them.
But if you are not sure about subnetting and you want some more practice with that, then there are some good
resources that I've put on the screen for you here.
So, let's have a look at these. The first is www.subnettingquestions.com, so I'll click on the link here. And what
this is it's a website that has questions, the same type of questions that you could see on the CCNA
exam, and every time you refresh it, it will come up with a new question.
For example, what's the first valid host on the subnet that the node 192.168.2.5/27 belongs
to? Another one, which is similar, is www.subnetting.org.
So same kind of thing, every time you refresh, it will give you a new question.
Again, same type of question, and it's really
variations on everything that we covered earlier in this course.
So, you should be confident that you can answer any of these questions now.
Check the question, when you figured that out, you can click on 'Reveal answer.' It tells you the answer,
and then you can go on to the next question.
This is really good for practicing subnetting, and again, if you're like me, you're not going to just learn
this in one go and then have it down.
You're probably going to want to practice it a little bit. Don't spend hours on end
practicing subnetting. That's no fun for anybody. But to get ready for the exam, you could
just come on here and spend 5 or 10 minutes a day just working through a few problems. And if you
do that for days or even weeks before the exam, you'll be fine when you get going subnetting questions.
Another thing to tell you is on the real world, people don't do subnetting in their head, typically,
if it wasn't obvious already. What we do is we use a subnet calculator.
So what you can do is you can go to Google, and in Google search, just search for subnet calculator,
and you'll see there is a heap of results that you will get.
I'll just click on the top one here to show you an example. So what this is useful for is if you are
doing subnetting in the real world,
if you need to figure anything out.
Also, if you're doing exam practice and you want to check that you got the answer right,
you can just come in here, plug in the numbers, and it will give you the answer. Okay,
that's it.
Subnetting done.
Let's move on to some of our features now.